# <b>Real-Time Sentence Comprehension in a Second Language</b>

## Project Overview

To understand the meaning of a sentence, language users need to integrate at least two sources of information - the meaning of a grammatical construction with the meaning of individual lexical items (e.g., nouns, verbs) used in this construction. For example, the Spanish intransitive motion construction has the meaning of "someone or something moving to a new place or in a new direction", as illustrated in *Pedro está caminando por una calle* ‘Pedro is walking down the street’. Thus, to successfully understand the entire sentence, one would need to integrate the meaning of the construction (movement) with the meaning of individual lexical items, for example, indicating how this movement is actually accomplished (e.g., by walking). 

While previous studies have shown that second language learners rely on the underlying meaning of constructions to understand sentences in real time, less is known about whether the learners' ability to access and use constructional information in real-time sentence comprehension is influenced by their proficiency and the association strength between a verb and a construction. <b>This project investigated the extent to which language learners' reading speed of Spanish sentences with constructions varies as a function of proficiency and verb-construction association strength.</b>

The hypotheses predicted that more proficient language learners would show shorter reading times of the sentences in which a verb is more strongly associated with a construction than the sentences with a less strong association between a verb and a construction.

## Data

* ***subject***: Participant number.
* ***item***: Spanish sentence number.
* ***region***: The ordinal number of a word in a sentence. Each sentence included seven regions (words), e.g., Region 1 (proper noun), Region 2 (verb) and Region 3 (preposition).
* ***construction_type***: Spanish sentences were generated by crossing four constructions: (1) verb - preposition ‘a’ - noun phrase or <b>VaN</b> (e.g., *ir a la escuela* 'go to the school'); (2) verb - preposition ‘en’ - noun phrase or <b>VenN</b> 
 (e.g., *vivir en una casa* 'live in the house'); (3) verb - preposition ‘de’ - noun phrase or <b>VdeN</b> (e.g., *venir de una ciudad* 'come from a city'); (4) verb - preposition ‘con’ - noun phrase or <b>VconN</b> (e.g., *salir con su amigo* 'go out with his/her friend').
* ***EIT_score*** (independent variable): Participants' score on a language proficiency test.
* ***verb_strength*** (independent variable): The association strength between a verb and a construction based on the results of the collostructional analysis (Stefanowitch & Gries, 2003). It refers to the degree to which the meaning of a construction is activated in a learner's mind given a particular verb and vice versa.
* ***RT_raw*** (dependent variable): Participants' raw reading times of each word in a sentence (measured in milliseconds).

## Data Analyses

All analyses were conducted using <b>R</b>. The R script involves code for a comprehensive analysis of reading times data. This includes data cleaning, data visualization using ggplot, and statistical analysis using mixed-effect linear modeling with the lmer function.  

Packages used include: <b>tidyverse</b>, <b>dplyr</b>, <b>ggplot2</b>, <b>lme4</b>.
